So now let's talk about AWS STS
which is a security service at the backbone of all of AWS.
So it's called a Security Token Service
and it allows to grant limited
and temporary access to AWS resources.
So you have tech tokens
and they can be valid up for to one hour or more
and they must be refreshed when they're invalid.
So when you want to get these tokens
you must first issue an API call into the STS service.
So when you assume a role, for example,
this is an STS AssumeRole API call.
What's going to happen is that you assume a role
within your accounts for enhanced security so that
you have credentials that will be invalidated after a while,
or you can assume a role
in a Cross Account Access type of setting,
to assume a role in a target account
to perform actions there.
So AssumeRole gives you credentials
and then they will be expired at some point.
So you need to AssumeRole when credentials expire.
You can also AssumeRoleWithSAML.
So that means that your users are logged in with SAML
and then you extend that SAML token to get credentials
from STS, you first must configure
of course, STS, to be able to exchange
and verify these SAML tokens.
You can also do AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity.
So this way when the users are identified
with an identity provider such as Facebook Login
Google Dot login, or anything OIDC compatible,
and then they're going to exchange these credentials
for, again, credentials of STS.
They're gonna be temporary.
And now this API call is sort of deprecated
and AWS is going to recommend
for you to use Cognito instead.
You also have GetSessionToken.
So this is when you're doing MFA
from a user or an account root user
and you want to get actual credentials
after having logged in with MFA.
So when you're using STS to assume a role,
you must first define an IAM role
within your account or cross account,
and then you define which principles
can access this IAM role.
Then you're going to use the STS service,
to retrieve credentials,
and then impersonate the IAM role you have access to,
for example, using the AssumeRole API.
So again, as I said, you have temporary credentials.
So if you have a look here, for example
a user wants to access a role in the same
or another account is going to do AssumeRole API to STS.
Of course he must be authorized to perform that API call.
Then STS is going to look at the permissions,
and then say, "Okay, you're good to go."
Here are some temporary credentials,
and then these credentials are going to be used,
and we will have assumed the role,
Thanks to these credentials.
So if we have a look at Cross-Account Access with STS,
let's say we have a Dev account and a Prod account
and we have an S3 bucket in Prod
that we want to access from IAM users in a group in Dev.
So the first thing we have to do is to create an IAM role
in the production account
And this IAM role is going to have access to the S3 buckets.
Next, we grant in the IAM group permissions,
to assume the UpdateApp IAM role from the other accounts.
So we're going to be able to assume this role
and then we're going to get back STS Role Credentials.
And then these credentials will allow us
to access the bucket in the target accounts.
So this IAM role,
that we define in the production accounts,
must also of course,
authorize the development accounts to assume it.
And so if you have an IAM group of testers
that are not authorized to assume this role
then they cannot access your production account.
So you've seen the process of using STS to
assume a role and get temporary credentials.
So I hope you liked it
and I will see you in the next lecture.